[Term Entry] Python:NumPy built-in-functions .median() (#4516)
Codecademy/docs: content/numpy/concepts/built-in-functions/terms/median/median.md

## Syntax

```pseudo
numpy.median(a, axis, out, keepdims)
```

The `a` parameter is required and represents the array of elements to calculate the median from. All other parameters are optional.

Parameters of the `.median()` function:

- `a`: (Input) The array of elements to calculate the median from.
- `axis`: (Default = None) An int or tuple of ints specifying the axis/axes along which to calculate the median. By default it considers the array to be flattened (Works on all axes). Axis = 0 works along the column and axis = 0 works along the row.
- `out`: (Default = None) A different array to place the result. It must have the same shape as the expected result.
- `keepdims`: (Default = False) A boolean; if `True` will keep reduced axes in the result as dimensions with size one.

## Example

The following example creates an array then applies a few `.median()` operations, and returns each result to the console.

```py
import numpy as np

a = np.array([[0,1,2],[3,4,5]])

print(np.median(a))
print(np.median(a, axis=0))
print(np.median(a, axis=1))
```

This produces the following output:

```shell  
2.5
[1.5 2.5 3.5]
[1. 4.]
```

## Codebyte Example

> The following example creates a 2-dimensional array composed of random integers (between 1 and 20). Then uses `.median()` to calculate the median, with various values of the `axis` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example creates a 2-dimensional array of random integers (between 1 and 20) and calculates the median using `.median()`, demonstrating different uses of the `axis` parameter.
```

---
Title: '.median()'
Description: 'Returns the median of the elements in a given array.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Data Structures'
  - 'Arrays'
  - 'Functions'
  - 'NumPy'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`.median()`** function calculates the median value of elements in an array along the specified axis.

## Syntax

> ```pseudo
> numpy.median(a, axis, out, keepdims)
> ```
> 
> The `a` parameter is required and represents the array of elements to calculate the median from. All other parameters are optional.
> 
> Parameters of the `.median()` function:
> 
> - `a`: (Input) The array of elements to calculate the median from.
> - `axis`: (Default = None) An int or tuple of ints specifying the axis/axes along which to calculate the median. By default, it considers the array to be flattened (works on all axes). `axis = 0` works along the column, and `axis = 1` works along the row.
> - `out`: (Default = None) A different array to place the result. It must have the same shape as the expected result.
> - `keepdims`: (Default = False) A boolean; if `True` will keep reduced axes in the result as dimensions with size one.

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```pseudo
numpy.median(a, axis=None, out=None, overwrite_input=False, keepdims=False)
```

- `a`: The array of elements to calculate the median from.
- `axis`: The axis or axes along which to calculate the median. By default, it considers the array to be flattened (works on all axes). `axis=0` works along the column and `axis=1` works along the row.
- `out`: A different array to place the result. It must have the same shape as the expected result.
- `overwrite_input`: A parameter which, if `True`, allows memory usage of the array for calculations.
- `keepdims`: A parameter which, if `True`, keeps reduced axes in the result as dimensions with size one.

> **Note:** The `a` parameter is the only required parameter for this function. All other parameters are optional.
````

## Example

> The following example creates an array then applies a few `.median()` operations, and returns each result to the console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example creates an array, then applies a few `.median()` operations, and returns each result to the console:
```

```py
import numpy as np

a = np.array([[0,1,2],[3,4,5]])

print(np.median(a))

> #computes the median of the entire array
> 
> print(np.median(a, axis=0))
> #computes the median along the vertical axis (column) of the array
> 
> print(np.median(a, axis=1))
> #computes the median along the horizontal axis (row) of the array

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Computes the median of the entire array

print(np.median(a, axis=0))
# Computes the median along the vertical axis (column) of the array

print(np.median(a, axis=1))
# Computes the median along the horizontal axis (row) of the array
```

```

This produces the following output:

```shell  
2.5
[1.5 2.5 3.5]
[1. 4.]
```

## Codebyte Example

> The following example creates a 2-dimensional array of random integers (between 1 and 20) and calculates the median using `.median()`, demonstrating different uses of the `axis` parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example creates a 2-dimensional array of random integers (between 1 and 20) and calculates the median using `.median()`, demonstrating different uses of the `axis` parameter:
```

```codebyte/python
import numpy as np

randarr = np.random.randint(1,20, size=(2,4))
print("Your randomised array is:")
print(randarr)

print("The median along the flattened array is:")
print(np.median(randarr))

> print("The median along the vertical axis (axis = 0) is:")
> print(np.median(randarr, axis=0))
> 
> print("The median along the horizontal axis (axis = 1) is:")
> print(np.median(randarr, axis=1))
> 
> print("The median along the horizontal axis (axis = 1) with keepdims = True is:")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
print("The median along the vertical axis (axis=0) is:")
print(np.median(randarr, axis=0))

print("The median along the horizontal axis (axis=1) is:")
print(np.median(randarr, axis=1))

print("The median along the horizontal axis (axis=1) with 'keepdims=True' is:")
```
